[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Therese, thank you so much.
Very warm welcome, and thank
you so much for joining us.
It's a pleasure
to have you here.
>> Oh, it's my
pleasure to be here.
I'm really excited to be here.
Thank you for having me.
>> Oh, you're welcome.
You're a wealth of
knowledge, and the work
that you're doing out
there in educating
the young women and families
and mothers of today
for what they need to
know is so important.
So I'm very excited
about our chat today.
You know, when we're looking
at depression and anxiety,
often we, perhaps,
more think towards what
we put into our bodies,
first and foremostly.
But what we are now coming to
realize in research for quite
some time is that what
we put on our bodies
is as important as what
we put in our bodies
and that a good 60%
to 65% of our skin
will absorb whatever we put on.
>> Yes, exactly.
>> So I guess what I'd love to--
before we get into
the nitty gritty,
because I know we're
going to do that--
>> We will.
Can you just share a
little bit about what
got you so passionate
about the journey
into cosmetics and
the environment
and how that's
affecting our health?
>> Yeah, sure.
In 2001, I had
tumors in my spleen
and had to have
my spleen removed,
and that was a
turning point for me.
In 1995, I had endometriosis
so bad, which is so common now.
All of the endocrine-disrupting
disorders are so common.
I had it back in 1995.
I always wanted
four children, but I
couldn't have four children.
I could only have two, and I
have two beautiful children,
Maddie and Miranda, and
they are just my gift.
But when I had
tumors in my spleen,
I started questioning, well,
what have I done to my body?
What could I have
done to my body
to have my body react in
the way that it did to have
me have tumors in my spleen?
And that's when I started
searching what I was actually
putting on my body and the
impact of that, what chemicals
were in those products.
Also, I started looking at
the pesticides, insecticides,
and the impact of
those on my body,
and my life has
never been the same.
>> So you sort of used yourself
as a science experiment,
really, to really start looking
at what kind of products were
in your home and your
environment that you were
starting to use.
>> Yeah, definitely.
>> So first of all, when we
start to look at products that
we put on and we start to
categorize things as personal
care, what kind of products
come under that kind of personal
hygiene, personal care?
>> So personal care is your
deodorant, your toothpaste,
mouth rinse, hand sanitizer,
body wash, hand wash,
hand and body lotion, foot
balm, basically any products,
even under your cosmetics.
So the cosmetics industry,
which is a broader--
which the personal care
section comes under.
So the cosmetics is
a broader category,
and it covers basically candles.
It covers baby care.
It covers men's products,
women's products,
all those sorts of products.
And unfortunately,
the cosmetics industry
is self-regulating, and what
that means is the cosmetics
industry or the people who make
the products are the ones who
determine whether or not
the products are safe,
which is ludicrous.
We have to change that.
So when I had
tumors in my spleen,
I reached out to
Bill Statham, who
is the author of
"The Chemical Maze."
He's one of the world's
leading researchers in regard
to chemicals and their
impacts, and we've
been friends ever since.
And what I found and
what I've continued
to find working with not only
Bill but with Professor Marc
Cohen from the RMIT
University-- who is just
the most amazing man and
he's a medical doctor,
a traditional Chinese medicine
doctor, a professor of wellness
in Australia.
And working with those
two amazing men and also
Sarah Lantz--
her research and her book,
"Chemical Free Kids,"
it's just amazing.
Her research that she did at
the University of Queensland
was just phenomenal
on newborn babies
and the chemicals in
their little bodies.
So that's why I started
this journey is--
and when I actually had
tumors in my spleen,
I couldn't find personal
care or skincare, toothpaste
that I really liked,
and there were
very minimal certified
organic products out there.
And the ones that were,
I didn't actually like.
And my goal is to prevent
what happened to me
from happening to other people.
And that's why we've released--
even though my goal, really,
is to educate, we've
released products
to provide or to fill
the need as such,
because if we don't
provide products,
then the education is lost.
>> Yeah, yeah.
So if we start to
look at specifically--
we're looking at depression
and anxiety and neurotoxins.
So if we started to look
at the various products
out there, the
everyday products,
whether they're shaving cream,
moisturizers, all the way down
to cosmetics and
makeup, what are
the sort of key chemicals
within those products that are,
number one, highly neurotoxic
that could actually
be contributing to someone's
experience of mood changes
or coping with
anxiety, as an example?
>> Yeah.
So there's many, many
chemicals out there
that are known neurotoxins
as well as immunotoxins
and basigins and
endocrine disruptors
and taratogens, which means
that they cause birth defects.
Neurotoxic chemicals
are in the majority
of our skincare products and
our personal care products.
So propylene glycol
is a classic chemical
that is known to be neurotoxic.
We have fluoride
in our toothpaste.
The studies that Professor
Grandjean and Dr. Landrigan
have done in relation to autism
and the link between fluoride
and, actually, another
10 chemicals in autism
is just phenomenal.
And I recommend that
everybody actually
gets a copy of that research,
and it's continued research.
They've continued to
look at the neurotoxins.
So you also have the pesticides,
organophosphates in particular,
that are neurotoxic.
You have sodium
benzoate, which is
in a lot of our
everyday products.
You have, as I said,
fluoride as well.
There's many, many chemicals
that are known neurotoxins,
and I could rattle on for
weeks in regard to that.
>> So for a mother, let's say,
at the supermarket and when you
look at the backs
of the ingredients,
many of them I can't
even pronounce.
So--
>> Most people can't.
>> For me, that's an
indication straight away.
Well, if I can't pronounce it,
then best I don't ingest it.
Are there certain-- to
try and guide our audience
to the number one things
to stay away from,
because everything is a rainbow
bridge towards making healthier
choice.
>> Totally.
>> Yeah?
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> And as much as at
first it might be daunting
an overwhelming to strip
your entire house of all
the chemicals that you use or
all of your personal products,
where can we start making some
steps in the right direction
towards reducing those toxins?
>> Well, it really comes back
to the exposure level that
you're placing on your body.
So you mentioned earlier
about the 60% absorption
on your skin.
Now, our skin--
research is showing
that our skin will absorb
chemicals up to 10 times
faster than by way of
ingestion, and that's
because our skin doesn't
have digestive enzymes
available to break
the chemicals down,
nor does it have the
further purification
process of the liver.
So when you're putting
a chemical on your body
or products on your body
that contain chemicals,
you want to ensure
that you are minimizing
that risk or that
chemical burden every day.
The different exposure levels--
for example, hand and body
lotion.
Anything that you're leaving
on the exposure level is great.
Anything you're
putting in your mouth,
the exposure level is great,
as well, because of the mucous
membranes under the tongue
will allow immediate absorption
into the bloodstream
and into the organs.
Any product with the
word "fragrance" in it--
now, fragrance is what we
call a cluster ingredient.
And unfortunately,
these are chemicals--
that one word, or that one
ingredient on the label,
it falls under the
IP of a company.
So they can put any
chemical in that product
and list it as that
one ingredient,
and you never know
what's in it now--
>> Wow.
>> --which is just crazy.
Now, Dr. Carol Hungerford states
that the number one gender
bender in all of the
chemicals is fragrance.
Fragrance normally
consists of DMDM hydantoin,
which is a
formaldehyde-releasing
chemical.
Alcohol denatured is often
found in fragrance, as well.
And fragrances, also,
they contain phthalate.
So every fragrance tested by the
EWG, the Environmental Working
Group, was found to
contain phthalates.
Now, phthalates are potent
endocrine-disrupting chemicals,
but they're also
highly neurotoxic.
>> And so what sort of disease
have they been either linked
to or found associated to?
>> Oh, lots.
The World Health Organization
report in 2012 where they
actually asked scientists from
around the world to identify
endocrine-disrupting
chemicals and their impacts--
so they have created a 284-page
document, and I've read it,
and the summary of
that actual document
is that male semen
quality has dropped 40%.
Genital malformation in baby
boys has increased by 400%.
That preterm and pregnancies
that aren't going full term are
at an all-time high, as are our
everyday endocrine-disrupting
disorders, which are
thyroid problem--
everyone knows somebody
with a thyroid problem--
PCOS, polycystic ovarian
syndrome, endometriosis.
Infertility is at
an all-time high.
Breast, ovarian,
testicular cancer
falls under the
endocrine-disrupting disorders,
and then we have
early onset puberty.
So young women, young girls
as young as seven and eight
are now going through puberty.
And then we have
early onset menopause
where there are women-- and
I speak to them regularly--
who are 26, 27, 28 going
through early onset menopause.
And I have a network of
wellness practitioners
who see these people regularly.
So in answer to your
question, in relation
to what type of disorders,
that's what they are.
And our endocrine system--
why our endocrine system
is so important-- and first
of all, what it
actually consists of
is our ovaries,
our testes in men,
our adrenals, our pancreas,
our thyroid, our parathyroid,
our pineal, hypothalamus,
and pituitary glands.
So it is the tuning
fork for the body.
It basically sends signals
out to just about every cell
in the body.
It regulates our hormones,
it regulates our metabolism,
and it controls our
hormone development.
So when you're putting
endocrine-disrupting chemicals,
which are also known to be
neurotoxic, on your body
and, therefore,
in your body, you
are putting chemicals that
are mimicking your hormones
in your body, causing
your endocrine system
to short circuit.
That's what's happening.
So you're having xenoestrogens
in your body sending forth
signaling.
Now, the challenge is--
you heard me mention genital
malformation in little baby
boys.
So that's alarming, the
fact that our baby boys are
being feminized by the
xenoestrogens, the estrogen
dominance of their mom.
And how that happens is that
most women don't understand
that when we are pregnant, we
pass our fat-soluble chemicals
down to our children in utero.
And another way that we pass
our fat-soluble chemicals
to our children is
through our breast milk.
And yes, breast milk is by
far the best thing for a baby.
However, we need
to clean our body
and get our body
rid of the chemicals
first before we pass them
down to our children.
And when babies are being
born estrogen dominant
during critical
phase of development,
their endocrine system
is being impacted
by these endocrine-disrupting
chemicals
and causing these challenges
in the genital malformation
of these little baby boys.
And what I mean by that,
just so as I can explain it,
is that the testes aren't
dropping in a little boy.
The penis isn't growing or the
tip of the penis, for example,
isn't on the tip of the penis.
It's on a different section.
Now, this is becoming--
as I said, the World
Health Organization report
has said it has
increased by 400%.
We have to do
something about that.
And believe me, it's not just
little boys who are impacted.
You can't have estrogen
dominance in any child
or any baby in utero
because there is an impact.
Over dominance in estrogen
will result in early onset
puberty, PCOS, endometriosis,
all of these challenge
that we're now seeing--
infertility-- that
we're now seeing
in our younger generation.
And we have allowed,
basically, untested chemicals
to be used in our cosmetics
by a self-regulating cosmetics
industry, and we are now
seeing the results of that.
>> So you said a moment ago,
the importance of-- and I just--
to clarify for the audience
in terms of fat-soluble toxins
and why it's so important
for us to understand
the implication of
the fat-soluble toxins
is because the body actually
stores toxins in our fat cells.
Is that correct?
>> Yes, exactly.
Yeah.
So what happens is that our
bodies are becoming so toxic.
Marc Cohen, Professor Marc
Cohen, and I were on the radio
recently speaking
about this, and he
was sharing that our bodies have
become so toxic that our bodies
can't get rid of--
they can't physically
get rid of the toxins
or the toxic exposure
within our bodies.
So as opposed to storing those
chemicals in our vital organs
or, because these are
fat-soluble chemicals,
in our brain, which is a
high percentage of fat, what
our body will do
will actually cause
us to put on fat to
store those chemicals in.
And then we have other
forms of chemicals,
which are, again,
endocrine-disrupting chemicals,
but are also obesogenic.
So they cause our fat
cells to multiply.
They reprogram our cells
to become fat cells.
And we have babies
being born-- research
is showing we have
babies being born
with more fat cells in their
little bodies than ever before.
>> Wow.
OK, so before we start talking
about some really doable
solutions, I just want
to address the fact of,
as you say, we're
self-regulating.
We have these
companies out there,
these cosmetic
companies, that literally
can put whatever they
want into an ingredient,
and until it's proven
otherwise, there's
no legislation for pre-testing
of that chemical that
goes into the ingredient.
>> Exactly.
No pre-market testing, no
health testing in regard
to those ingredients, as such,
and they can be inserted or put
into any formulation
on the basis they're
safe until proven otherwise.
Now, the REACH program in
Europe has been introduced.
That was introduced
in around 2004.
So it's been around
for a little while.
And what they've done is they've
actually stopped that process.
They've actually
said, no, we are not
going to allow cosmetic
companies to continue
to put chemicals in
products on the basis
that they're safe
until proven otherwise.
We are going to hold
them to account,
and we are not allowing them to
put chemicals into the products
unless they're
proven to be safe.
My goal is to bring
that to this country,
and we're creating a
petition around that,
and it'll be a call for change.
As fate would have it, I sat
next to the Assistant Shadow
Minister for Health,
Stephen Jones, on a flight,
and he was my captive audience,
and we talked for a long time,
and I'm working with him
to ban animal testing.
And also, I've been
speaking to him
about bringing the REACH program
from Europe to Australia.
So we're in the process of
putting all of this together,
which is very exciting.
>> It's--
>> And it's so needed.
>> It's so-- that's exactly
what I was going to say.
It's exciting.
It's so needed, because
it's not like we
need any further evidence that
these chemicals are actually
impacting our health.
>> No.
>> And yet, I often wonder,
how far do we have to go
in the proving of their
association or the cause before
industry bodies are actually
prepared to intervene and put
some sort of protocol in place
whereby these chemicals are
tested?
>> That's what we need to do.
As I said, I do a lot of work
with Professor Marc Cohen.
And even so much as the
chemicals that are-- even
though the incidence
of autism, you
look at that, where
we're at today.
So Professor Marc
Cohen, who is my age,
he qualified for med school.
At that time, there was one in
10,000 children in Australia
had autism.
It's now one in 100.
So I'm an ambassador
for MIND Foundation,
and MIND Foundation is the
treatment and prevention
of autism and autistic
spectrum disorders.
In America, the official
rate of autism is one in 66.
We have professors who work
with the MIND Foundation who
are saying, by 2025, if we
keep going the way we're going,
it'll be one in two children
who will have autism.
And the ones that
don't will be the ones
that remove the environmental
toxins from their lives.
>> Wow.
>> And it's not just
about what we're putting--
I'm not just about what
we're putting on our skin.
It's about the organophosphates,
the glyphosates that
are impacting our gut
health, and that's
a big thing with children with
autism, as well, and autistic
spectrum disorders.
We have to get their
gut health right.
And I take a holistic approach.
I live and breathe
certified organic.
And I just-- that's who I am
and sharing the benefits of that
and educating as
to the benefits.
And the crazy thing is
that food never used
to have to be called organic.
It just was.
>> It just was.
Yeah.
>> And now we are having to call
food organic because chemicals
have become so commonplace, and
we need to go back to nature,
not only for the health
of ourselves, our kid,
future generations, but
also for our planet.
>> And I find that there are
some people out there today who
look at organic and think
it's some sort of extreme way
of sourcing our food, yet it
is the way we always have.
>> Yeah, that's exactly right.
That's how it used to be.
That's how it is naturally.
>> Yeah, yes.
>> Chemicals aren't natural.
They're petroleum derived
or pesticide ridden,
and they're not natural.
Natural is organic, but there's
a huge misrepresentation
in relation to the use
of the word "organic."
So in this country and in most
countries around the world,
a company can claim
something is organic
if it has one
natural ingredient,
but it may contain
hundreds of chemicals
and still be classed as organic.
So for people, the
unsuspecting consumer
will go looking for a
healthy alternative,
but, unfortunately,
they are misled
by what we call greenwashing,
companies pretending
to create products
that are healthy when,
in fact, the majority
of the products
out there that are pretending
to be healthy and/or say organic
are far from healthy.
And some of them are well
known in health food stores.
I've had to educate
health food store
owners as to what
certified organic really is
or what organic really is.
And there's companies that have
well-known brands out there
that contain cocamidopropyl
betaine, phenoxyethanol,
sodium benzoate, lots and
lots of nasty chemicals.
Yes, they may be a safer option
and it may be a transition,
but they still
have the chemicals.
Phenoxyethanol, for example, is
known to cause liver and kidney
damage, known to be
a reproductive toxin,
known to be a neurotoxin,
known to be damaging
to our entire endocrine system.
And it's in most of the
healthy products out there.
So the key is understanding
what organic really
is, and the only true
organic is certified organic.
And for a product to
be certified organic,
it has to say "certified
organic" on the front
and it has to have a logo
of a reputable company.
And unfortunately,
some companies
will make up their own
logo, and it's not--
>> Create their
own certification.
>> Yeah, and when it says
"made with" or "contains,"
it's also made with chemicals
or also contains chemicals.
It can only say "certified
organic," not "made with,"
not "contains."
>> So you're the ambassador for
Australian Organic Association.
>> Yeah.
>> Can you tell us a little
bit about the rigidity
of their certification?
>> Yeah.
So ACO, I believe,
are the most--
well, we know they're the
most stringent in Australia
and I believe fast
becoming recognized
as that around the world.
With certification, it
requires pre-planting
before any pre-planning
of the soil.
The soil cannot be used for
any ingredients or any farming
for four years,
and it is tested.
They do random audits,
and every step of the way
has full traceability in
relation to chemicals.
So we have to keep the arduous
records in regard to it.
And then the other thing
is that it really--
it has this stringent
strictness about it,
but it is what we need because
it's a consumer's guarantee
that the products don't
contain those nasty chemicals,
that the products-- even
the manufacturing processes
of some of the formulations
in relation to our cosmetics
are known to be carcinogenic.
So ethoxylation is linked
to carcinogenic activity.
So even everything to do with
the certification process
is managed, right
from pre-planning
of the soil all the
way through to retail,
and there's traceability
all the way through.
And that's a
consumer's guarantee.
>> Wow.
OK, so that's one to
definitely look out for.
>> Yeah.
In answer to your previous
question about people
making the switch,
toothpaste is definitely
one area that people need
to switch, also deodorant,
because what you put
under your arms, basically
100% will be absorbed
into your body.
And any ingredient
or any product
with fragrant, fragrance,
in it will be absorbed up
to 100% within your body, and
that's because what we have is
there are chemicals
that are known--
penetration enhancers
or absorption enhancers.
Propylene glycol is one.
It's a neurotoxin, as
well, reproductive toxin,
and it is also a
penetration enhancer,
which causes the other chemicals
to be absorbed quicker.
So it's really
understanding that if you
have the word
"fragrance--" and not
only just "fragrance"
in the word
in the product but
also "perfume--"
is full of chemicals as such.
Remove those from your life.
Professor Carol Hungerford--
Dr. Carol Hungerford-- sorry--
states that the one thing--
the very thing a
woman thinks makes
her more feminine,
smelling beautiful,
is the very thing that's
costing her her femininity.
What a powerful statement.
>> That is--
>> And that's the same for men.
>> --an incredibly
powerful statement.
>> You know, men are
becoming more feminized.
They're getting
the rounded hips.
The increase of
male breast growth
has increased dramatically, and
it's because of the deodorants
that they're putting on.
With all of the
fragrance, with all
of the endocrine-disrupting
chemicals,
as well as the
immunotoxins, the majority
of products out
there on the shelf
contain chemicals that are
toxic to the immune system
and as well as
reproductive toxins,
as well as all of these others.
Teratogens are known to cause
birth defects and embryo
defects.
And your hand
sanitizer that contains
alcohol denatured as the number
one ingredient is the worst.
Now, we have created
a hand sanitizer
that is lemon myrtle,
which is exactly
the same antibacterial
quality or capability
of any conventional product but
without the nasty chemicals.
>> Without the nasty chemicals.
>> And lemon myrtle is the
number one antibacterial,
antimicrobial
ingredient of all time.
>> So do you think that--
you know, I often wonder--
and I was a culprit
of this, as well,
before I educated myself and--
>> Me too.
>> As we all are-- and
it's the path of learning.
>> I was a walking,
talking perfume shop.
I used to wear perfume.
I used to wear concentrated
body wash and body oil and body
lotion, highly fragranced, and
then put perfume all over me.
And now, if I've put perfume
near me, I get a headache,
and my body-- yeah, I've--
>> Cleaned up so much--
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> --that you realize how
sensitive you are to it.
>> Yeah, yeah.
So I didn't mean to cut you off.
>> No, no, not at all.
So I was just--
I remember back into kind
of how I used to think,
and one of the
things I used to--
as a way of denial all
of what I was doing,
I'd just think to myself, well,
I'm not putting on that much.
It's only a little
bit of lippy or it's
only one spray of deodorant.
It's hardly anything.
>> There's a real challenge
with that because the dose--
they now know-- scientists
now know the dose no longer
determines the poison.
So it is dependent upon
an individual's body
and how their endocrine system,
in particular in relation
to the endocrine-disrupting
chemicals,
how they react as such.
And in particular to the
endocrine-disrupting chemicals,
the dose no longer
determines the poison.
So you can use a product
a couple of times or once
and you can still
have a major challenge
with your endocrine system.
You can also-- obviously,
if you use it more,
you have a greater risk.
But the research is
showing it doesn't
determine the poison anymore.
So it's a matter of switching--
I say to people, if you remove
the products from your life--
so if you don't want
chemicals in your body,
if you don't want
these things that
unfortunately we
take for granted--
and I think the biggest
challenge I have as an educator
and as a creator
and manufacturer
of beautiful certified
organic products that
remove the chemical burden
from the body every day--
as an educator, the
biggest challenge
we have is actually
having people
believe that the products
on the shelf aren't safe.
They only need to get a copy of
"The Chemical Maze" or research
and educate themselves.
They'll soon see how
unsafe the chemicals are.
And the other challenge is--
with cosmetics, at least
the ingredients are
listed on the labels.
With household cleaning
products, they aren't.
>> They're not.
>> So you never
know what's in them.
So at least with
the cosmetics you
can actually go and have a
look, and you'll be mortified.
I assumed, like most people,
that the products on the shelf
were safe, and I
wish that I knew
what I know now back when I
was younger because I would
have done things differently.
But we only know what we know.
We don't know what
we don't know.
And that's the area when
I actually hold events,
I work on, is that you don't
know what you don't know.
Let me empower you,
because, with education, you
can make informed choices.
Without education,
you're just going
along believing these
products are safe,
believing that the pesticides,
insecticides, organophosphates,
glyphosates that
are used every day
on the food and the additives
and the other chemicals
in your food, even, are safe.
Educate yourself.
Education is power.
And then you choose
what to do with it.
Ultimately, it's your choice.
>> So what we really want
to know, in that case,
is what are the sort of
ingredients that we can use
that's going to do the same
job as all of these horrible
chemicalized products out there?
>> Yeah.
So again, switching to
safer certified organic,
but if you can't do
that or if you can't
afford certified organic--
and really, the concentration
of certified organic
is so much greater.
Like, our toothpaste will
last somebody three months,
and it's $19.95.
But if you can't
afford that, use
bicarb soda, aluminum free,
bicarb soda, and lemon.
Squeeze lemon, but please
make it certified organic,
and brush your teeth with that.
And we can also do apple
cider vinegar and bicarb soda.
So you can do that as well.
>> So what do you put in your
toothpaste that you produce?
>> So our toothpaste has
parsley, sage, thyme,
coconut oil, Celtic sea salt.
So why Celtic sea salt is used--
so people put-- and we work
with holistic dentists in regard
to our toothpaste.
Sodium fluoride is
used in toothpaste
to provide a mineral
base, because what
happens is what causes
cavities within the teeth--
not just the sugar,
but it is a combination
of sugar and bacteria.
So the sodium fluoride
actually mineralizes
so that that doesn't happen.
You can use and what we
use is Celtic sea salt,
which provides the
same mineral base
but without the nasty
chemical side effects.
Fluoride-- sodium
fluoride has been
linked to bone cancer, bone
defects, dental fluorosis-- so
the white spots on
kids' teeth, it's
an over ingestion of fluoride,
having too much fluoride
through the water
supply, too much fluoride
through the toothpaste.
Fluoride is also a
known neurotoxin.
>> Calcifies the pineal gland.
>> Yeah, it does.
And we need not to have
our pineal gland calcified.
We need to have
that free of that.
The other thing that
toothpaste contains
is triclosan, which is
a registered pesticide.
These things are in
our everyday products.
But we have parsley,
sage, thyme, coconut oil,
Celtic sea salt, aloe vera,
coconut oil, I said, spearmint,
peppermint, lemon myrtle, all
of the beautiful ingredients
that-- and our toothpaste
is called Tooth Mousse--
because normal
toothpaste has fillers,
tiny fillers that
you can't see that
are microscopic plastic beads.
And do you know, Marc Cohen
states that there is not
1 liter of the ocean
around the world
now that doesn't contain tiny
microscopic plastic beads.
Isn't that scary?
So our toothpaste
is a Tooth Mousse.
So it's a combination or it's
in between a paste and a mousse.
So it's a little bit
thicker than a mousse,
but it's thinner than a paste.
And it's super,
super concentrated,
and it leaves your
mouth so fresh.
>> Wow.
OK, I'm going to be trying that.
>> So in relation to our
hand and body lotion--
again, you can just use
coconut oil-- again,
certified organic because you're
guaranteed that it's not going
to contain the nasty chemicals.
If you want something
even more beautiful,
use our hand and
body lotion, which
contains lemon myrtle,
cedarwood, rose geranium,
avocado oil, macadamia oil, oh,
just all the amazing-- rooibos
tea, rooibos.
All of our products
contain rooibos,
which is 50 times
more antioxidant rich
than green tea.
And our products are
about-- it's not just
about what you're not
putting in the products
or what's not in the products,
as in all the nasty chemicals.
It's what's in the products.
And they're high antioxidant,
nutrient-rich ingredients
that are just amazing.
And the results that we've
been getting-- the testimonials
that we've been getting in
relation to eczema, dermatitis,
psoriasis, rosacea have
been absolutely incredible.
I had this little
boy called Andy Otto,
and I was the CEO of
KORA for three years.
So as a family, we
have KORA Organics
by Miranda, which is
certified organic skincare
for the younger generation.
And then we have Divine
by Therese Kerr, which
is personal care-- so your
toothpaste, your deodorant,
your hand sanitizer,
body wash, body lotion,
all sorts of those
personal care products.
We have Divine Man
and Divine Baby
now, which is very exciting.
We even have opened
a restaurant as
in certified organic
restaurant, as well.
And as a family, we're
dedicated to sharing the message
and having every product
out there on the market that
is there in a conventional
sense transformed
to a certified organic
one as a healthier option.
So I mentioned earlier
about sunscreen.
Sunscreen is one of
the worst things,
and yet people use it every day.
They need to look at and
research and educate themselves
as to their chemicals.
So normal sunscreen-- that's
basically every sunscreen out
there-- will contain
phenoxyethanol, octocrylene--
now, octocrylene has never been
tested for safety in cosmetics.
Octocrylene produces
oxygen-reactive species
upon exposure to sunlight,
which means, upon exposure
to sunlight, it produces free
radicals that cause cancer.
>> So you're actually putting
something on your body
to prevent cancer that's
actually causing cancer.
>> Yeah, and what
an oxymoron that is.
Crazy, crazy.
And that's also self-tanners.
So self-tanners contain
phenoxyethanol, propylene
glycol, octocrylene, and a lot
of these chemicals-- in fact,
the majority of chemicals
in our cosmetics
have never been
tested for safety.
As I said, they're used
on the basis they're
safe until proven otherwise.
If any have, they are
tested in isolation,
and anyone who knows
anything about chemistry
knows that if you test
a chemical by itself
and you put just one
other chemical with it,
you can have a totally
different reaction,
let alone hundreds of different
chemicals going in there.
And over the last 39 years,
do you know how many chemicals
have been banned in cosmetics?
>> How many?
>> 11.
Over 39 years, only
11 chemicals have
been banned in cosmetics,
which is ludicrous.
>> And yet, what was
the latest study--
how many chemicals were
found in a newborn?
>> Oh, gosh.
Professor Sarah Lantz from
Queensland University,
she took newborn babies'
umbilical cords and found,
on average, 200 chemicals in
their little umbilical cords.
She also worked on babies
with malformed genitalia.
And this study has
been replicated
all around the world.
There are some
babies who have 287
chemicals in their little
umbilical cords at birth.
>> 287 chemicals and
we're getting rid of 11.
>> Yeah, 11 over 39 years.
11 over 39 years, which is--
>> We seriously need
our heads tested.
>> It's crazy.
And one day, we will look
back, I believe-- one day,
we will look back in the
not too distant future
and we'll say, what on
earth were we thinking?
And clearly, we weren't.
And we have allowed this.
So this won't change through
me doing this or other people
standing up and saying this.
This will change when it
changes at the ground roots,
because every time
we spend money,
we are voting with our
dollar for that to continue.
And what happened in America
with the BPA-free baby
bottles-- and please don't think
BPS is any safer, because BPS--
the research that's coming
out in relation to BPS
is showing it's just as
endocrine disrupting as BPA.
And BPAs, bisphenols,
are some of the worst
endocrine-disrupting chemicals
that you can actually
put in your body-- in your
Glad Wrap, your Teflon,
the pans that you use,
your plastic containers.
They all contain BPA.
So it's really about removing
and switching to glass.
Switching to safer glass
is by far the safest thing.
So with moms in America,
they actually said,
we're not going to buy
BPA baby bottles anymore.
So they just
stopped buying them.
So the companies had to stop.
They had to--
>> Stop making them.
>> --stop making them.
>> You got to stop buying
>> Yeah.
If the demand isn't there,
the supply will stop.
>> Yeah.
>> And what I am
so proud about--
I get really excited about this.
What I'm so proud
of Australia about
is that we have the largest land
mass of certified organic land
anywhere in the world now.
So we've gone from
12 million hectares
to now 22 million hectares,
and it's growing and--
>> That's fantastic.
>> The more we have,
the cheaper the supply,
the cheaper the products are
going to be because we're going
to have the supply there to
meet the demand, which is--
>> That is fantastic.
>> That's so exciting.
And I acknowledge all of
the Australian farmers--
you know, I get
emotional about this--
all of the Australian
farmers who are actually
doing this and anyone
in certified organic
who is doing this.
It's hard work.
>> It is.
>> It's not easy creating
certified organic and trying
to make the shift
and educate people,
and that's what
farmers are doing.
And they are doing it
with love, you know?
And they're doing it
and with the intent
of really making a
difference to our kids
and future generations.
And my goal, my
personal goal, is
to have mums actually educate
their daughters to stop
putting chemicals, makeups--
we're going to be
releasing makeup next year.
We're going to be
releasing anti-aging skin
care for the more mature woman.
So we'll cover every
area of health.
But my goal is to have
mums have their daughters
and their sons not
using the products that
contain the chemicals so that
when they go to have babies,
they're not passing they're
fat-soluble chemicals
onto their children
and in utero.
So their babies are being
born free of chemicals,
and then we have a baby range so
that then, when you're actually
putting products on
your baby, you're
putting products
as nature intended
that actually
support their bodies,
that give their
bodies nutrition.
And that's what our
Divine Baby range does.
So it's very exciting.
>> Therese, fantastic
information.
Absolutely mind blowing.
How you cover and articulate
the information is just amazing.
>> Oh, thank you.
I'm very passionate
about it, as you can see.
>> And I so understand that
when you are passionate about
something, then the barriers
are just knocked down
because the passion is always
enough to overcome what those
barriers are.
So if we were to
give, let's say,
three alternatives
to our audience--
let's say, right now, what
could be a simple deodorant
alternative that perhaps
could even be made at home?
>> So coconut oil.
>> Coconut oil?
Anything in it?
>> Coconut oil--
antibacterial, antimicrobial.
Just use coconut oil.
My husband, before
we released out--
because we have Divine Men
Deodorant and our other Divine
by Therese Kerr Deodorant.
He used to use coconut oil.
You know what I used to use?
>> What?
>> I'd get lemon,
certified organic lemon.
I'd get a wedge of lemon, and
I'd just wipe it under my arm.
>> OK.
>> Yeah, totally antibacterial.
It works.
So if you can't
afford deodorant,
if you can't afford
certified organic,
buy the certified
organic fruit and do that
or buy the certified
organic coconut oil.
>> What would be your number
one recommendation of a washing
detergent alternative?
>> With washing detergent,
there's amazing companies.
So Eco Home and Abode
are beautiful products
that are really environmentally
friendly and safe for you.
Nicole Bijlsma from
Abode, she's just amazing.
She's a building biologist.
She's currently doing a
PhD with Professor Marc
Cohen, who I speak with
just about every day.
And they're amazing
products-- so definitely that.
And for a body lotion, if you
can't afford a body lotion,
use coconut oil.
It's one of the best things--
again, certified organic.
And it's a medium
chain fatty acid,
so even though you're putting
it on your body, again,
60%, on average, is
going into your body.
You want it to convert
to energy, not to fat.
>> Yeah, beautiful.
>> So that's what
coconut oil does.
>> Yeah, perfect.
>> And what we do with our
company and with Divine
and as a family--
I've just had this event down
at Nanna Kerr's Kitchen, which
is our restaurant in the Hunter
Valley, or my son's restaurant.
We've just had this event where
it's an Educated, Empowered,
and Chemical Free event, and
it's all about organic living,
celebrating organic
living, celebrating, also,
women coming together because--
and no disrespect to
men, but Western women
will transform this world.
We are the purchasing
powerhouse.
We have the ability to transform
this, and it starts with us.
And we had this amazing event
down at Nanna Kerr's, and
the people didn't want to leave.
We ended up sitting around
and having lunch together
and talking about
how can we really get
those people to
actively participate
in this transformation, because
it won't happen with me.
And I say to people,
don't be my champion.
Be your champion.
Be your children's champion.
Be your children's
children's champion
and be our planet's champion.
And you-- and one of
my favorite sayings--
I know I talk a lot.
One of my favorite
sayings is, I always
wondered why somebody didn't
do something about that,
and then I realized
I am somebody.
We're all somebody.
And as a family, we
have a public profile,
and we're going to use it.
Damn right.
We're going to use it
to make the most of what
we can to make a
difference in this world
because I want to leave
this world a better place.
One day, Flynn--
every child to me
is our responsibility,
because one day Flynn
may want to get married, and
he may want to have children,
and I want him to have
healthier children.
And to do that, I've got
to ensure every child
is healthy because I don't
know who he's going to choose.
And same with my nephews and
nieces and all of the kids
that are going to
be having kids.
I want to make sure
they're healthy.
And we have the
ability to do that.
We just have to get back to
nature as nature intended
and not all this chemical
garbage that has become so much
a part, a big part of our
lives, and it's really
about switching to
safer-- removing
that chemical burden
from your life
that you place on yourself.
And it is so beautiful
when you're actually
at home and everything in
your home is supporting,
not hindering, your body and
supporting, not hindering,
the planet, because
when we realize
what we do to our planet, we
do to ourselves, that's when
we'll get a transformation.
>> That's when the
light bulb is on.
>> Yeah, exactly.
>> One last question.
You're such a joy to talk to and
so inspiring and so passionate.
>> And so are you, my darling.
What you're doing is amazing.
>> Thank you.
Thank you.
>> It's absolutely incredible.
>> The "I am" statement,
the very last question--
I'm asking the same of all
of our wonderful speakers--
simply that the power to change
our mind and to use mindfulness
and how we speak to
ourselves to really transform
what we create every day
and shift our perspective.
>> Yeah, totally.
>> What is your "I am" that you
wake up to and remind yourself?
>> I am the awareness
behind my thoughts.
That's who I am.
>> Beautiful.
>> I am not my thoughts.
I am the awareness
behind my thoughts,
consistently, so that I
can always consistently
be who I need to
be in this world
to hopefully make a difference.
>> I love it.
I love it.
Therese, thank you so
much for being with us.
I've thoroughly
enjoyed our chat,
and thank you for your
immense body of wisdom.
>> Oh, thank you.
Thank you for having me.
>> You're welcome.
>> It's been just beautiful.
>> Thank you.